The choice of neural
network architecture can
have a big impact on performance.
This includes
the number of nodes,
the activation functions, and
how the nodes are
arranged and connected.
Today we will provide
some intuition on
the role that depth can
play in the network.
By the end of this video,
you will understand how
deep neural networks are
composed of many layers and
understand that depth
can facilitate
learning features through
composition and abstraction.
We can view a neural
network as being
a modular system where
each layer is a module.
We can add and remove
layers and we can
change the types of
layers that we use.
The depth of the network
is defined by
the number of hidden layers
in the network.
In theory, a neural network
need not be deep.
A neural network with
a single hidden layer can
approximate any
continuous function
given that is sufficiently wide.
We call this the universal
approximation property.
However, practical experience
and theory suggests that
deep neural networks may make it
easier to approximate
complex functions.
One reason for this is that
the depth allows
composition of features.
Composition can produce
more specialized features
by combining modular components.
Consider an intuitive example.
The input is the raw
pixels of an image.
The earlier layers
might learn to capture
low-level features like
lines at various angles.
The next layer may
learn to compose
those lines into various shapes.
From these, the network
might be able to detect
objects or animals in an image.
This typically works better
than trying to immediately
infer these directly
from the raw pixels.
By adding more layers or
more units to each layer,
we can represent
more complex functions.
Depth can also be helpful
for obtaining abstractions.
Deep neural networks compose
many layers of
lower-level abstractions
with each successive
layer contributing
to increasingly abstract
representations.
Consider the previous example.
The network might
eventually represent
the concept of an owl
with a single bit.
A zero mean of the image
does not contain
an owl and a one mean
the image does contain an owl.
At this level,
all the extra detail
on the image has been removed.
We no longer know the color of
the owl or even what's
in the background.
In fact, we can explicitly
design the network to
remove unnecessary details
from the input.
For example, a network can be
designed with a bottleneck layer.
The idea is simple.
Each successive layer
contains less nodes
than the layer before.
The representation
is the layer with
the fewest nodes and contains
the key details needed
for prediction.
Overall, depth in a network can
significantly improve
our agent's ability
to learn features.
In this video, we described how
networks can be composed of
multiple layers and discussed
that depth facilitates
composition and abstraction.
Today, we discuss some of
the potential benefits
of dethrone networks.
In practice, picking
the right architecture can be
difficult and can significantly
impact performance.
We will not discuss
the network architectures
further in this course.
There are many good
resources on this topic.
Check them out if you
want to know more.
Next, we will discuss learning
the parameters of
a neural network.